vxlan: Update VXLAN documentation to include EVPN (#444)
apache/cloudstack-documentation: source/plugins/vxlan.rst

The VXLAN Plugin
================

General
-------
CloudStack supports VXLAN technology to enhance scalability and flexibility in networking designs.

> Using VXLAN (Virtual Extensible LAN) over traditional VLAN (Virtual LAN) offers several key benefits, especially for modern data centers and cloud networking environments that require high scalability and flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using VXLAN (Virtual Extensible LAN) instead of traditional VLAN (Virtual LAN) for layer 2 isolation method offers several key benefits, especially for modern data centers and cloud networking environments that require high scalability and flexibility.
```

VXLAN overcomes the limitations of traditional VLANs by providing a highly scalable, flexible, and efficient networking solution. It enables the creation of a large number of isolated virtual networks over a common physical infrastructure,
supports better utilization of network resources through Layer 3 routing capabilities, and simplifies network management and provisioning.

When deploying a VXLAN-based network, there are two options to choose from:

   •  Multicast
   •  EVPN using BGP

> While Multicast is the easiest to set up, EVPN offers much more control, scalability, and flexibility. Therefore, it is chosen in most VXLAN network deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Multicast is the easiest to set up VXLAN isolation, EVPN offers much more control, scalability, and flexibility. Therefore, it is chosen for most VXLAN network deployments.
```

.. warning::

>   Deploying VXLAN, especially with EVPN, requires extensive networking knowledge which isn't covered by this documentation or CloudStack in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Deploying VXLAN, especially with EVPN, requires extensive networking knowledge, which isn't covered by this documentation or CloudStack in general.
```

| Hypervisor          | KVM                                           | Only the BridgeVifDriver (default) is supported                                                                |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Network Card (NIC)  | VXLAN offloading                              | A NIC with VXLAN-offloading support is recommended. For example Mellanox ConnectX-5 or Intel X710              |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| IP Protocol         | IPv4 or IPv6                                  | CloudStack is agnostic to the IP-protocol being used as underlay. Both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported             |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | MTU                 | >=1550                                        | VXLAN has an overhead of 50 bytes, therefor 1550 is the minimum. See the notes below                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MTU                 | >=1550                                        | VXLAN has an overhead of 50 bytes, therefore 1550 is the minimum. See the notes below                           |
```

In order to configure "jumbo frames" you can i.e. make physical interface/bridge with 9000 bytes MTU, then all the VXLAN
interfaces will be created with MTU of 8950 bytes, and then MTU size inside Instance can be set to 8950 bytes.

> In general it's recommend to use an MTU of at least 9000 bytes or larger. Most VXLAN capable network cards and switch support an MTU of up to 9216.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general it's recommended to use an MTU of at least 9000 bytes or larger. Most VXLAN capable network cards and switch support an MTU of up to 9216.
```

Using an MTU of 9216 bytes allows for using Jumbo Frames (9000) within guest networks. 

VXLAN using Multicast
---------------------
The default mode for using VXLAN is Multicast. The required configuration is described below.

Important note on max number of multicast groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Default value of "net.ipv4.igmp_max_memberships" (cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/igmp_max_memberships) is "20", which means that host can be joined to max 20 multicast groups (attach max 20 multicast IPs on the host).

Since all VXLAN (VTEP) interfaces provisioned on host are multicast-based (belong to certain multicast group, and thus has it's own multicast IP that is used as VTEP), this means that you can not provision more than 20 (working) VXLAN interfaces per host.

> Under Linux you can NOT provision (start) more than 20 VXLAN interfaces and error message "No buffer space available" can be observed in Cloudstack Agent logs after provisioning required bridges and VXLAN interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under Linux you can NOT by default provision (start) more than 20 VXLAN interfaces and the error message "No buffer space available" will appear in the Cloudstack Agent logs after provisioning the required bridges and VXLAN interfaces.
```

> Increase needed parameter to sane value (i.e. 100 or 200) as required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Increase the needed parameter to an appropriate value (i.e. 100 or 200) as required.
```

> If you need to operate more than 20 Instances from different client's Network, this change above is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to operate more than 20 Instances from different client networks, the change above is required.
```

UDP/8472 port must be opened.

Make sure that your firewall (firewalld, ufw, ...) allows UDP packets on port 8472, as an example:

::

   $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port=8472/udp
   $ sudo ufw allow proto udp from any to any port 8472

VXLAN using EVPN
---------------------
Using VXLAN with BGP+EVPN as underlay is more complex to set up, but does allow for more scaling and provides much more flexibility.

This documentation can not cover all elements of deploying BGP+EVPN in your environment.

It is recommend to read `this blogpost <https://vincent.bernat.ch/en/blog/2017-vxlan-bgp-evpn>`_ before you continue. 

The main items for using EVPN:

- BGP Routing Daemon on the hypervisor
- No LACP/Bonding will be used

> - Modified script is required to use EVPN instead of Multicast

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The modified script is required
```

Reviewer: @NuxRo Did you truncate the phrase by accident?

EVPN Bash script
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The default 'modifyvxlan.sh' script this is installed by CloudStack uses Multicast for VXLAN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default 'modifyvxlan.sh' script installed by CloudStack uses Multicast for VXLAN.
```

A different version of this script is available which will use EVPN instead of Multicast and ships with CloudStack by default.

In order to use this script create a symlink on **each** KVM hypervisor

::

>   $ ln -s /usr/share/modifyvxlan.sh /usr/share/cloudstack-common/scripts/vm/network/vnet/modifyvxlan-evpn.sh

Author: Yes! Fixed

> This script is also available on `download.cloudstack.org <https://download.cloudstack.org/tools/scripts/vxlan/modifyvxlan.sh>`_.

Author: I have already modified the link so that it will work when 9778 merges

> View the contents of the script to understand it's inner workings, some key items:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
View the contents of the script to understand its inner workings, some key items:
```

- VXLAN (vtep) devices are created using 'nolearning', disabling the use of multicast

> - UDP port 4789 (RFC 7348)

Author: Yes, otherwise UDP packets will not work. 4789 is being used by Cumulus, Arista, Juniper and others as the default VXLAN port.

    bgp router-id 10.255.192.12
    no bgp ebgp-requires-policy
    no bgp default ipv4-unicast
    no bgp network import-check
    neighbor uplinks peer-group
    neighbor uplinks remote-as external
    neighbor uplinks ebgp-multihop 255
    neighbor ens2f0np0 interface peer-group uplinks
    neighbor ens2f1np1 interface peer-group uplinks
    !
    address-family ipv4 unicast
     network 10.255.192.12/32
     neighbor uplinks activate
     neighbor uplinks next-hop-self
     neighbor uplinks soft-reconfiguration inbound
     neighbor uplinks route-map upstream-v4-in in
     neighbor uplinks route-map upstream-v4-out out
    exit-address-family
    !
    address-family ipv6 unicast
     network 2001:db8:100::1/128
     neighbor uplinks activate
     neighbor uplinks soft-reconfiguration inbound
     neighbor uplinks route-map upstream-v6-in in
     neighbor uplinks route-map upstream-v6-out out
    exit-address-family
    !
    address-family l2vpn evpn
     neighbor uplinks activate
     advertise-all-vni
     advertise-svi-ip
    exit-address-family

This configuration will:

- Establish two BGP sessions using BGP Unnumbered over the two uplinks (ens2f0np0 and ens2f1np1)

> - Twese BGP sessions are usually established with two Top-of-Rack (ToR) switches/routers which are BGP+EVPN capable

Author: Fixed!
